# Jaramillo J, Pereira U, Svoboda K. Wang X.-J. Subcortical modulation of cortical dynamics for motor planning: a computational framework. 

Planning, a prospective form of short-term memory, is a cognitive function that has been predomi- nantly attributed to the cortex. Recent experiments, however, have concluded that the thalamus and other subcortical structures participate in this function. A comprehensive computational framework to link neural dynamics and cognition in the context of large-scale subcortical-cortical circuits is lacking. In this computational study, we elucidated the dynamical mechanisms by which the cortex, thalamus and other subcortical structures jointly contribute to planning. We propose the following multi-regional mechanism: first, recurrent circuitry in the cortex generates stimulus-selective activ- ity patterns, which are maintained by reciprocal corticothalamic projections across a memory epoch. Next, subcortical signals are routed through the thalamus to selectively modify these patterns to enable successful completion of a behavioral task. We refer to this dynamical process as subcortex control of dynamical modes, as the cortical activity patterns (‘dynamical modes’) are low-dimensional in com- parison to the number of neurons that are modulated by the task. We evaluated the implications of subcortex control by simulating networks of interconnected thalamic and cortical ‘rate’ units in the context of a motor planning task. In tight link with electrophysiological data from mice, we identified subcortical excitatory and inhibitory contributions to the planning computations across distinct epochs of this task. Our model predicts that the distinct computational roles of the pars reticulata (SNr) and thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) during planning are a result of their specific selectivity-dependent connectivity patterns with the thalamus. Moreover, a ‘switch’ from movement planning to execution is instantiated by a midbrain-mediated thalamic burst, which uncovers a latent motor instruction that is stored in deep cortical layers during the memory epoch. Overall, we propose a novel framework to analyze planning computations in terms of cortical dynamical modes, which are shaped by subcortical structures via the thalamus based on task demands.
